# Fractional-order-SEIQRDP-Model-for-Simulating-the-Dynamics-of-COVID-19-Epidemic
Abstract—Goal:Coronavirus  disease  (COVID-19)  is  a  con-tagious   disease   caused   by   a   newly   discovered   coronavirus,initially   identified   in   the   mainland   of   China,   late   December2019.   COVID-19   has   been   confirmed   as   a   higher   infectiousdisease   that   can   spread   quickly   in   a   community   populationdepending  on  the  number  of  susceptible  and  infected  cases  andalso   depending   on   their   movement   in   the   community.   SinceJanuary  2020,  COVID-19  has  reached  out  to  many  countriesworldwide,  and  the  number  of  daily  cases  remains  to  increaserapidly.Method:Several mathematical and statistical models havebeen  developed  to  understand,  track,  and  forecast  the  trendof   the   virus   spread.Susceptible-Exposed-Infected-Quarantined-Recovered-Death-Insusceptible (SEIQRDP)model  is  one  of  themost  promising  epidemiological  models  that  has  been  suggestedfor estimating the transmissibility of the COVID-19. In the presentstudy, we propose a fractional-order SEIQRDP model to analyzethe COVID-19 pandemic. In the recent decade, it has proven thatmany aspects in many domains can be described very successfullyusing  fractional  order  differential  equations.  Accordingly,  theFractional-order  paradigm  offers  a  flexible,  appropriate,  andreliable framework for pandemic growth characterization. In fact,due to its non-locality properties, a fractional-order operator takesinto  consideration  the  variables’  memory  effect,  and  hence,  ittakes  into  account  the  sub-diffusion  process  of  confirmed  andrecovered cases. Results–The validation of the studied fractional-order  model  using  real  COVID-19  data  for  different  regions  inChina,  Italy,  and  France  show  the  potential  of  the  proposedparadigm in predicting and understanding the pandemic dynamic.Conclusions:Fractional-order epidemiological models might playan important role in understanding and predicting the spread ofthe COVID-19, also providing relevant guidelines for controllingthe  pandemic.
